introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: 'Security tools for the AI era'
---

# Dotset Labs

**Security tools for the AI era.**

Dotset Labs provides security tools for developers working with AI assistants:

- **[Hardpoint](/hardpoint/cli/overview)** - Developer environment security scanner for the AI era
- **[Countersign](/countersign/cli/overview)** - MCP server supply chain verification
- **[Tollgate](/tollgate/cli/overview)** - Policy-based access control for AI agents using MCP
- **[Deadfall](/deadfall/cli/overview)** - Activity monitoring and anomaly detection for MCP servers

---

## Hardpoint

AI coding assistants introduce new attack surfaces. Malicious `.cursorrules` files, prompt injection in `CLAUDE.md`, hidden Unicode characters, and backdoors in shell configs can compromise your development environment.

**Hardpoint** scans your environment for these AI-era threats — detecting issues that traditional security tools miss.

```bash
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/hardpoint/cmd/hardpoint@latest
hardpoint scan
```

> [!NOTE]
> Hardpoint runs entirely locally with no network access. [Learn more →](/hardpoint/security/trust)

---

## Countersign

MCP servers need supply chain verification. Before installing, verify packages were built from trusted source code.

**Countersign** checks Sigstore signatures, SLSA provenance, and transparency logs.

```bash
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/countersign/cmd/countersign@latest
countersign verify @modelcontextprotocol/server-postgres
```

> [!NOTE]
> Countersign verifies using industry-standard cryptography. [Learn more →](/countersign/security/trust)

---

## Tollgate

AI agents using MCP servers have full access to powerful tools — databases, filesystems, and APIs. Without access control, a single prompt injection or misunderstood request can cause damage.

**Tollgate** adds policy-based access control to any MCP server, letting you allow, deny, or prompt for approval on each tool call. Identify risks early with automated server scanning and 50+ pre-built policy templates.

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/tollgate
tollgate wrap npx @modelcontextprotocol/server-postgres
```

> [!NOTE]
> Tollgate runs entirely locally with no cloud dependencies. [Learn more →](/tollgate/security/trust)

---

## Deadfall

AI agents explore your filesystem looking for credentials and config files. Deadfall plants tripwires — fake credential files that trigger alerts when accessed.

**Deadfall** generates canary tokens (fake .env files, SSH keys, MCP configs) and monitors them for access.

```bash
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/deadfall/cmd/deadfall@latest
deadfall init
deadfall watch
```

> [!NOTE]
> Deadfall processes everything locally. [Learn more →](/deadfall/security/trust)

---

## Quick Install

```bash
# For dev environment security
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/hardpoint/cmd/hardpoint@latest

# For supply chain verification
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/countersign/cmd/countersign@latest

# For MCP access control
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/tollgate

# For activity monitoring
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/deadfall/cmd/deadfall@latest
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup>
  <Card title="Hardpoint Quickstart" icon="radar" href="/quickstart#hardpoint">
    Scan your dev environment
  </Card>
  <Card title="Countersign Quickstart" icon="signature" href="/quickstart#countersign">
    Verify package provenance
  </Card>
  <Card title="Tollgate Quickstart" icon="lock" href="/quickstart#tollgate">
    Add access control to MCP servers
  </Card>
  <Card title="Deadfall Quickstart" icon="bell" href="/quickstart#deadfall">
    Monitor MCP activity
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs: remove Countersign and update ecosystem documentation

introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: 'Security tools for the AI era'
---

# Dotset Labs

**Security tools for the AI era.**

Dotset Labs provides security tools for developers working with AI assistants:

- **[Hardpoint](/hardpoint/cli/overview)** - Developer environment security scanner for the AI era
- **[Tollgate](/tollgate/cli/overview)** - Policy-based access control for AI agents using MCP
- **[Deadfall](/deadfall/cli/overview)** - Canary tokens and honeypots for detecting AI agent misbehavior

---

## Hardpoint

AI coding assistants introduce new attack surfaces. Malicious `.cursorrules` files, prompt injection in `CLAUDE.md`, hidden Unicode characters, and backdoors in shell configs can compromise your development environment.

**Hardpoint** scans your environment for these AI-era threats — detecting issues that traditional security tools miss.

```bash
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/hardpoint/cmd/hardpoint@latest
hardpoint scan
```

> [!NOTE]
> Hardpoint runs entirely locally with no network access. [Learn more →](/hardpoint/security/trust)

---

## Tollgate

AI agents using MCP servers have full access to powerful tools — databases, filesystems, and APIs. Without access control, a single prompt injection or misunderstood request can cause damage.

**Tollgate** adds policy-based access control to any MCP server, letting you allow, deny, or prompt for approval on each tool call. Identify risks early with automated server scanning and 50+ pre-built policy templates.

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/tollgate
tollgate wrap npx @modelcontextprotocol/server-postgres
```

> [!NOTE]
> Tollgate runs entirely locally with no cloud dependencies. [Learn more →](/tollgate/security/trust)

---

## Deadfall

AI agents explore your filesystem looking for credentials and config files. Deadfall plants tripwires — fake credential files that trigger alerts when accessed.

**Deadfall** generates canary tokens (fake .env files, SSH keys, MCP configs) and monitors them for access.

```bash
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/deadfall/cmd/deadfall@latest
deadfall init
deadfall watch
```

> [!NOTE]
> Deadfall processes everything locally. [Learn more →](/deadfall/security/trust)

---

## Quick Install

```bash
# For dev environment security
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/hardpoint/cmd/hardpoint@latest

# For MCP access control
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/tollgate

# For canary tokens and honeypots
go install github.com/dotsetlabs/deadfall/cmd/deadfall@latest
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup>
  <Card title="Hardpoint Quickstart" icon="radar" href="/quickstart#hardpoint">
    Scan your dev environment
  </Card>
  <Card title="Tollgate Quickstart" icon="lock" href="/quickstart#tollgate">
    Add access control to MCP servers
  </Card>
  <Card title="Deadfall Quickstart" icon="bell" href="/quickstart#deadfall">
    Deploy canary tokens
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
