quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: Quickstart
description: 'Get protected in 60 seconds'
---

# Quickstart

This guide gets you from zero to protected in under a minute.

## 1. Install

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/shield
```

## 2. Zero-Migration Setup

Shield automatically detects `.env` files. If you already have one, you're ready to go:

```bash
# Run with automatic protection
dotset run -- npm start
```

## 3. Using Multiple Providers

Shield can aggregate secrets from multiple sources. For example, to use both `.env` files and AWS Secrets Manager:

```bash
dotset run --providers dotenv,aws-sm -- node server.js
```

## 4. Native Encrypted Storage

If you want to use Shield's native encrypted storage (for cloud sync and team sharing):

### Initialize
```bash
dotset secrets init
```

### Add Secrets
```bash
dotset secrets set DATABASE_URL "..."
dotset secrets set API_KEY "..." --scope production
```

## 5. Protection Modes

| Mode | Behavior | Use Case |
|:-----|:---------|:---------|
| `detect` | Warning in logs | Auditing |
| `redact` | Replaces secrets (default) | **Recommended** |
| `block` | Suppresses lines | High Privacy |

```bash
# Redact secrets in real-time
dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
```

## Example Output

```bash
$ dotset run --mode redact -- node app.js

🛡️  shield | mode: redact | secrets: 5 | providers: dotenv, environment

Starting server...
Connecting to database: [REDACTED]
Using API key: [REDACTED]
Server running on port 3000

🛡️  shield | exit: 0 | exposures: 2
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup>
  <Card title="Protection Modes" icon="shield" href="/concepts/protection-modes">
    Learn about detect, redact, and block
  </Card>
  <Card title="Local CI" icon="terminal" href="/guides/local-ci">
    Run GitHub Actions locally
  </Card>
  <Card title="Team Sync" icon="cloud" href="/guides/team-sync">
    Share secrets with your team
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs: update for production launch and broad secret detection

quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: Quickstart
description: 'Get protected in 60 seconds'
---

# Quickstart

This guide gets you from zero to protected in under a minute.

## 1. Install

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/shield
```

## 2. Zero-Migration Setup

Shield automatically detects `.env` files. If you already have one, you're ready to go:

```bash
# Run with automatic protection
dotset run -- npm start
```

## 3. Using Multiple Providers

Shield can aggregate secrets from multiple sources. For example, to use both `.env` files and AWS Secrets Manager:

```bash
dotset run --providers dotenv,aws-sm -- node server.js
```

## 4. Protection Modes

| Mode | Behavior | Use Case |
|:-----|:---------|:---------|
| `detect` | Warning in logs | Auditing |
| `redact` | Replaces secrets (default) | **Recommended** |
| `block` | Suppresses lines | High Privacy |

```bash
# Redact secrets in real-time
dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
```

## Example Output

```bash
$ dotset run --mode redact -- node app.js

🛡️  shield | mode: redact | secrets: 5 | providers: dotenv, environment

Starting server...
Connecting to database: [REDACTED]
Using API key: [REDACTED]
Server running on port 3000

🛡️  shield | exit: 0 | exposures: 2
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup>
  <Card title="Protection Modes" icon="shield" href="/concepts/protection-modes">
    Learn about detect, redact, and block
  </Card>
  <Card title="Local CI" icon="terminal" href="/guides/local-ci">
    Run GitHub Actions locally
  </Card>
  <Card title="Cloud Analytics" icon="cloud" href="/guides/analytics">
    Track protection events in the dashboard
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
