security/encryption.mdx, before:

---
title: Encryption
description: 'How shield protects your secrets'
---

# Encryption & Security

Shield uses industry-standard cryptography to protect your secrets.

## Encryption Algorithm

**AES-256-GCM** (Galois/Counter Mode)

- 256-bit key length
- Authenticated encryption
- Prevents tampering

## Key Derivation

**Argon2id** — Winner of the Password Hashing Competition

Parameters:
- Memory: 64 MB
- Iterations: 3
- Parallelism: 4

These settings are resistant to GPU and ASIC attacks.

## How It Works

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Your Secret: "sk-abc123..."                        │
│                    │                                │
│                    ▼                                │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────┐            │
│  │  Argon2id Key Derivation           │            │
│  │  (from .dotset/key)                │            │
│  └────────────────────────────────────┘            │
│                    │                                │
│                    ▼                                │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────┐            │
│  │  AES-256-GCM Encryption            │            │
│  │  + Random IV                       │            │
│  │  + Authentication Tag              │            │
│  └────────────────────────────────────┘            │
│                    │                                │
│                    ▼                                │
│  Encrypted: "aes256-gcm:iv:ciphertext:tag"         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## File Security

| File | Contains | Commit? |
|------|----------|---------|
| `.dotset/key` | Random bytes | **Never** |
| `.dotset/manifest.json` | Encrypted blobs | Yes |

## Zero-Knowledge Architecture

1. **Local encryption only** — We never see your plaintext secrets
2. **Client-side keys** — Your key never leaves your machine
3. **Encrypted sync** — Cloud stores only encrypted blobs

## Cloud Security

When using cloud sync:

- TLS 1.3 in transit
- AES-256 at rest
- SOC 2 Type II infrastructure
- Regular security audits

## Threat Model

Shield protects against:

| Threat | Protection |
|--------|------------|
| Log exposure | Real-time redaction |
| Manifest theft | AES-256 encryption |
| Brute force | Argon2id key derivation |
| Tampering | GCM authentication |

## Key Rotation

To rotate your encryption key:

```bash
# Export current secrets
dotset secrets list > backup.txt

# Delete and reinitialize
rm -rf .dotset
dotset init

# Re-add secrets
dotset secrets set KEY "value"
```

Commit message:

docs: overhaul for provider-agnostic architecture and clean slate

security/encryption.mdx, after:

---
title: Encryption
description: 'How shield protects your secrets'
---

# Encryption & Security

Shield uses industry-standard cryptography to protect your secrets.

## Encryption Algorithm

**AES-256-GCM** (Galois/Counter Mode)

- 256-bit key length
- Authenticated encryption
- Prevents tampering

## Key Derivation

**Argon2id** — Winner of the Password Hashing Competition

Parameters:
- Memory: 64 MB
- Iterations: 3
- Parallelism: 4

These settings are resistant to GPU and ASIC attacks.

## How It Works

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Your Secret: "sk-abc123..."                        │
│                    │                                │
│                    ▼                                │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────┐            │
│  │  Argon2id Key Derivation           │            │
│  │  (from .dotset/key)                │            │
│  └────────────────────────────────────┘            │
│                    │                                │
│                    ▼                                │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────┐            │
│  │  AES-256-GCM Encryption            │            │
│  │  + Random IV                       │            │
│  │  + Authentication Tag              │            │
│  └────────────────────────────────────┘            │
│                    │                                │
│                    ▼                                │
│  Encrypted: "aes256-gcm:iv:ciphertext:tag"         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## File Security

| File | Contains | Commit? |
|------|----------|---------|
| `.dotset/key` | Random bytes | **Never** |
| `.dotset/manifest.json` | Encrypted blobs | Yes |

## Zero-Knowledge Architecture

1. **Local encryption only** — We never see your plaintext secrets
2. **Client-side keys** — Your key never leaves your machine
3. **Encrypted sync** — Cloud stores only encrypted blobs

## Cloud Security

When using cloud sync:

- TLS 1.3 in transit
- AES-256 at rest
- SOC 2 Type II infrastructure
- Regular security audits

## Threat Model

Shield protects against:

| Threat | Protection |
|--------|------------|
| Log exposure | Real-time redaction |
| Manifest theft | AES-256 encryption |
| Brute force | Argon2id key derivation |
| Tampering | GCM authentication |

## Key Rotation

To rotate your encryption key for the native provider:

```bash
# Export current secrets (keys only)
dotset secrets list 

# Reinitialize with a fresh key
rm -rf .dotset
dotset secrets init

# Re-add secrets
dotset secrets set KEY "value"
```

## Other Providers

Secrets pulled from external providers like **AWS Secrets Manager**, **Environment Variables**, or **.env files** are:
1. **Never stored in plaintext** by Shield.
2. **Processed in-memory only** during the execution of `dotset run`.
3. **Automatically tracked** by the redaction engine.
