cli/link.mdx, before:

---
title: dotset link
description: 'Connect your project to the cloud dashboard'
---

# dotset link

Connect your local project to your dotset cloud dashboard for protection analytics.

## Usage

```bash
dotset link <project-id> --token <api-token>
```

## Options

| Option | Description | Required |
|--------|-------------|----------|
| `-t, --token <token>` | API token from dashboard | Yes |
| `--api-url <url>` | Custom API URL (self-hosted) | No |

## Getting Your Token

1. Log in to [app.dotsetlabs.com](https://app.dotsetlabs.com)
2. Open your project
3. Go to **API Tokens** tab
4. Click **New Token** and copy it

<Warning>
Tokens are only shown once. Store them securely.
</Warning>

## Example

```bash
# Link project
dotset link proj_abc123 --token dss_xxxxx

# Verify connection
dotset status
```

## What Happens

When linked, `dotset run` automatically sends **anonymized telemetry** to your dashboard:

- **Command** executed (e.g., "npm start")
- **Secrets count** loaded
- **Exposures blocked** (secret key names only, never values)
- **Mode** used (detect/redact/block)
- **Duration** and exit code

<Tip>
No secret values are ever sent to the cloud. Only metadata about protection events.
</Tip>

## Related Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `dotset unlink` | Disconnect from cloud |
| `dotset status` | Show connection status |

## Disable Telemetry

To run a command without reporting:

```bash
dotset run --no-telemetry -- npm start
```

Commit message:

docs: add beta password instructions to link command

cli/link.mdx, after:

---
title: dotset link
description: 'Connect your project to the cloud dashboard'
---

# dotset link

Connect your local project to your dotset cloud dashboard for protection analytics.

## Usage

```bash
dotset link <project-id> --token <api-token>
```

## Options

| Option | Description | Required |
|--------|-------------|----------|
| `-t, --token <token>` | API token from dashboard | Yes |
| `--api-url <url>` | Custom API URL (self-hosted) | No |
| `--beta-password <password>` | Beta access password (if required) | No |

<Info>
The `--beta-password` option is only needed if the cloud instance is running in private beta mode.
</Info>

## Getting Your Token

1. Log in to [app.dotsetlabs.com](https://app.dotsetlabs.com)
2. Open your project
3. Go to **API Tokens** tab
4. Click **New Token** and copy it

<Warning>
Tokens are only shown once. Store them securely.
</Warning>

## Example

```bash
# Link project
dotset link proj_abc123 --token dss_xxxxx

# Verify connection
dotset status
```

## What Happens

When linked, `dotset run` automatically sends **anonymized telemetry** to your dashboard:

- **Command** executed (e.g., "npm start")
- **Secrets count** loaded
- **Exposures blocked** (secret key names only, never values)
- **Mode** used (detect/redact/block)
- **Duration** and exit code

<Tip>
No secret values are ever sent to the cloud. Only metadata about protection events.
</Tip>

## Related Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `dotset unlink` | Disconnect from cloud |
| `dotset status` | Show connection status |

## Disable Telemetry

To run a command without reporting:

```bash
dotset run --no-telemetry -- npm start
```
