cli/unified-cli.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Unified CLI'
description: 'Using the dotset CLI to run apps with secrets and monitoring'
---

# Unified CLI

The `@dotsetlabs/cli` package provides a unified `dotset` command that combines the power of Axion and Gluon.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/cli
```

## dotset run

The `run` command is the flagship feature of the unified CLI. It allows you to run your application with encrypted secrets from Axion and runtime security monitoring from Gluon.

```bash
dotset run [options] -- <command>
```

### How it Works

1. **Secret Injection:** Axion fetches your encrypted secrets, decrypts them in memory, and injects them into the process environment.
2. **Runtime Monitoring:** Gluon hooks into stdout/stderr and network calls to detect secret leaks and monitor activity.
3. **Unified Execution:** Your command is spawned as a child process with full protection and telemetry.

### Options

| Option | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `--scope <env>` | Environment scope for secrets (development, staging, production) |
| `--mode <mode>` | Secret protection mode: `detect`, `redact`, `block` |
| `--redact-text <text>` | Custom text used for redaction (default: `[REDACTED]`) |
| `--no-monitor` | Disable runtime monitoring (secrets only) |

### Examples

**Basic Development**
```bash
dotset run -- npm run dev
```

**Production with Redaction**
```bash
dotset run --scope production --mode redact -- node server.js
```

**Blocking Secret Leaks**
```bash
dotset run --mode block -- npm start
```

## Secondary Commands

The unified CLI also acts as a shortcut to individual product CLIs:

```bash
# Axion shortcuts
dotset axn list
dotset axn set KEY VALUE

# Gluon shortcuts
dotset gln analyze
dotset gln sbom

# Tachyon shortcuts
dotset tcn share 3000
```

## Why use the Unified CLI?

- **Simplicity:** One tool to manage your entire security and DX stack.
- **Better Together:** Seamless integration between secret management and leak prevention.
- **CI/CD Ready:** Use a single `dotset run` command in your pipelines to ensure security and compliance.

Commit message:

docs: overhaul documentation for unified CLI and branding
- Update all product quickstarts and CLI references

- Refactor introduction and cloud sync guides

- Add new reference materials for the unified dotset CLI

cli/unified-cli.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Unified CLI'
description: 'Using the dotset CLI to run apps with secrets and monitoring'
---

# Unified CLI

The `@dotsetlabs/cli` package provides the `dotset` command that combines the power of all three modules: Axion (secrets), Gluon (security), and Tachyon (tunnels).

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/cli
```

## dotset run

The `run` command is the flagship feature of the unified CLI. It allows you to run your application with encrypted secrets from Axion and runtime security monitoring from Gluon.

```bash
dotset run [options] -- <command>
```

### How it Works

1. **Secret Injection:** Axion fetches your encrypted secrets, decrypts them in memory, and injects them into the process environment.
2. **Runtime Monitoring:** Gluon hooks into stdout/stderr and network calls to detect secret leaks and monitor activity.
3. **Unified Execution:** Your command is spawned as a child process with full protection and telemetry.

### Options

| Option | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `--scope <env>` | Environment scope for secrets (development, staging, production) |
| `-s, --service <name>` | Service to load secrets for |
| `--mode <mode>` | Secret protection mode: `detect`, `redact`, `block` |
| `--redact-text <text>` | Custom text used for redaction (default: `[REDACTED]`) |
| `--no-secrets` | Disable secret injection |
| `--no-monitor` | Disable runtime monitoring |

### Examples

**Basic Development**
```bash
dotset run -- npm run dev
```

**Production with Redaction**
```bash
dotset run --scope production --mode redact -- node server.js
```

**Blocking Secret Leaks**
```bash
dotset run --mode block -- npm start
```

**Multi-Service**
```bash
dotset run --service api --scope production -- npm start
```

## Why use the Unified CLI?

- **Simplicity:** One tool to manage your entire security and DX stack.
- **Better Together:** Seamless integration between secret management and leak prevention.
- **CI/CD Ready:** Use a single `dotset run` command in your pipelines to ensure security and compliance.
