hadron/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Quickstart'
description: 'Run CI Pipelines Locally with Hadron'
---

# Hadron Quickstart

Debug your GitHub Actions locally before pushing to CI.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- `@dotsetlabs/cli` installed globally
- A project with GitHub Actions workflows (`.github/workflows/`)

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/cli
```

## Initialize Hadron

```bash
dotset init --hadron
```

Or add to an existing project:

```bash
# Enable Hadron in your dotset project
dotset config set hadron.enabled true
```

## Running Your First CI Build

### 1. List Available Jobs

See what workflows and jobs are available:

```bash
dotset ci --list
```

### 2. Run a Single Job

Execute a specific CI job locally:

```bash
dotset ci build
```

### 3. Run Multiple Jobs

Execute multiple jobs in sequence:

```bash
dotset ci build test deploy
```

## Key Features

### Real Secrets from Axion

Hadron automatically loads secrets from Axion, so your local CI runs use the same secrets as production:

```bash
# Secrets are injected automatically
dotset ci build --scope prod
```

### Gluon Leak Protection

If Gluon is enabled, your CI output is monitored for secret leaks:

```bash
# With leak blocking enabled
dotset ci test --mode block
```

### Custom Workflow Files

Specify a different workflow file:

```bash
dotset ci build --workflow .github/workflows/deploy.yml
```

## Example Workflow

```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
name: CI
on: [push]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm ci
      - name: Build
        run: npm run build
        env:
          API_KEY: ${{ secrets.API_KEY }}

  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm test
```

Then run locally:

```bash
dotset ci build test
```

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="CLI Reference" icon="terminal" href="/hadron/cli-reference">
    Full command reference for Hadron CI commands
  </Card>
  <Card title="Integration" icon="link" href="/hadron/integration">
    Deep integration with Axion and Gluon
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs: update hadron documentation with --sync flag and cloud sync guides

hadron/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Quickstart'
description: 'Run CI Pipelines Locally with Hadron'
---

# Hadron Quickstart

Debug your GitHub Actions locally before pushing to CI.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- `@dotsetlabs/cli` installed globally
- A project with GitHub Actions workflows (`.github/workflows/`)

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/cli
```

## Initialize Hadron

```bash
dotset init --hadron
```

Or add to an existing project:

```bash
# Enable Hadron in your dotset project
dotset config set hadron.enabled true
```

## Running Your First CI Build

### 1. List Available Jobs

See what workflows and jobs are available:

```bash
dotset ci --list
```

### 2. Run a Single Job

Execute a specific CI job locally:

```bash
dotset ci build
```

### 3. Run Multiple Jobs

Execute multiple jobs in sequence:

```bash
dotset ci build test deploy
```

## Key Features

### Real Secrets from Axion

Hadron automatically loads secrets from Axion, so your local CI runs use the same secrets as production:

```bash
# Secrets are injected automatically
dotset ci build --scope prod
```

### Gluon Leak Protection

If Gluon is enabled, your CI output is monitored for secret leaks:

```bash
# With leak blocking enabled
dotset ci test --mode block
```

### Custom Workflow Files

Specify a different workflow file:

```bash
dotset ci build --workflow .github/workflows/deploy.yml
```

## Example Workflow

```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
name: CI
on: [push]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm ci
      - name: Build
        run: npm run build
        env:
          API_KEY: ${{ secrets.API_KEY }}

  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm test
```

Then run locally:

```bash
dotset ci build test
```

## Cloud Synchronization

Keep your team in the loop by syncing local results to the dotset dashboard:

```bash
dotset ci build test --sync
```

This allows you to track build status, performance, and security findings centrally.

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="CLI Reference" icon="terminal" href="/hadron/cli-reference">
    Full command reference for Hadron CI commands
  </Card>
  <Card title="Integration" icon="link" href="/hadron/integration">
    Deep integration with Axion and Gluon
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
