guides/github-actions.mdx, before:

---
title: GitHub Actions
description: 'Protect your GitHub Actions workflows'
---

# GitHub Actions Integration

Shield integrates seamlessly with GitHub Actions to protect your CI builds.

## Basic Setup (Zero-Migration)

If your secrets are already in a `.env` file (e.g., created by a previous step), Shield works automatically:

```yaml
- name: Run tests with protection
  run: dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
```

## Using AWS Secrets Manager

Shield can pull secrets directly from AWS during your build. Ensure your runner has the correct IAM permissions:

```yaml
- name: Run with AWS Secrets
  run: dotset run --providers aws-sm --mode redact -- npm deploy
  env:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
    AWS_REGION: us-east-1
```

## Using Native Protected Storage

If you use Shield's native encrypted storage, provide your project key:

```yaml
- name: Run with native secrets
  run: dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
  env:
    DOTSET_KEY: ${{ secrets.DOTSET_KEY }}
```

<Tip>
To initialize a project for native storage, use `dotset secrets init` locally before pushing.
</Tip>

Commit message:

docs: update for production launch and broad secret detection

guides/github-actions.mdx, after:

---
title: GitHub Actions
description: 'Protect your GitHub Actions workflows'
---

# GitHub Actions Integration

Shield integrates seamlessly with GitHub Actions to protect your CI builds.

## Basic Setup

Shield auto-detects secrets from environment variables injected by GitHub Actions:

```yaml
- name: Install Shield
  run: npm install -g @dotsetlabs/shield

- name: Run tests with protection
  run: dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
  env:
    DATABASE_URL: ${{ secrets.DATABASE_URL }}
    API_KEY: ${{ secrets.API_KEY }}
```

## Using with .env Files

If your workflow creates a `.env` file from secrets, Shield picks it up automatically:

```yaml
- name: Create .env from secrets
  run: |
    echo "DATABASE_URL=${{ secrets.DATABASE_URL }}" >> .env
    echo "API_KEY=${{ secrets.API_KEY }}" >> .env

- name: Run with protection
  run: dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
```

## Using AWS Secrets Manager

Shield can pull secrets directly from AWS during your build:

```yaml
- name: Run with AWS Secrets
  run: dotset run --providers aws-sm --mode redact -- npm deploy
  env:
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
    AWS_REGION: us-east-1
```

## Cloud Analytics

Link your project to track protection events:

```yaml
- name: Run with analytics
  run: dotset run --mode redact -- npm test
  env:
    DOTSET_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.DOTSET_API_TOKEN }}
```

<Tip>
Create an API token in the Dotset dashboard and store it as a GitHub secret. Shield will automatically report protection events.
</Tip>
