tollgate/cli/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: CLI Overview
description: 'Tollgate command-line interface'
---

# CLI Reference

The Tollgate CLI provides policy-based access control for MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers, adding a security layer between AI agents and their tools.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/tollgate
```

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [`wrap`](/tollgate/cli/wrap) | Wrap any MCP server with instant protection |
| [`start`](/tollgate/cli/start) | Start proxy for a configured server |
| [`init`](/tollgate/cli/init) | Create a tollgate.yaml config file |
| [`validate`](/tollgate/cli/validate) | Validate configuration file |
| [`logs`](/tollgate/cli/logs) | View recent audit logs |
| [`stats`](/tollgate/cli/stats) | Show audit statistics |
| [`export`](/tollgate/cli/export) | Export logs for compliance reporting |

## Global Options

```bash
tollgate --version    # Show version
tollgate --help       # Show help
```

## Quick Examples

```bash
# Zero-config protection (prompts for all tool calls)
tollgate wrap npx @modelcontextprotocol/server-postgres

# Use a configuration file
tollgate start -s postgres -c ./tollgate.yaml

# View recent tool calls
tollgate logs -n 50

# Export logs for compliance
tollgate export -f json -o audit.json
```

## Two Modes of Operation

### Wrap Mode (Zero Config)

Instantly protect any MCP server without configuration:

```bash
tollgate wrap npx @anthropic/mcp-server-filesystem ./src
```

### Config Mode (Full Control)

Use a YAML configuration file for fine-grained policies:

```bash
# Create config
tollgate init

# Start with config
tollgate start -s filesystem
```

Commit message:

docs(tollgate): update cli documentation and branding
- Add documentation for 'scan', 'doctor', and 'templates' commands
- Update introduction to highlight new scanner and templates
- Fix default audit paths in wrap documentation
- Clean up logo SVG comments

tollgate/cli/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: CLI Overview
description: 'Tollgate command-line interface'
---

# CLI Reference

The Tollgate CLI provides policy-based access control for MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers, adding a security layer between AI agents and their tools.

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @dotsetlabs/tollgate
```

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [`wrap`](/tollgate/cli/wrap) | Wrap any MCP server with instant protection |
| [`start`](/tollgate/cli/start) | Start proxy for a configured server |
| [`init`](/tollgate/cli/init) | Create a tollgate.yaml config file |
| [`templates`](/tollgate/cli/templates) | Browse and apply server config templates |
| [`scan`](/tollgate/cli/scan) | Scan MCP servers for security risks |
| [`doctor`](/tollgate/cli/doctor) | Run diagnostics on your environment |
| [`validate`](/tollgate/cli/validate) | Validate configuration file |
| [`logs`](/tollgate/cli/logs) | View recent audit logs |
| [`stats`](/tollgate/cli/stats) | Show audit statistics |
| [`export`](/tollgate/cli/export) | Export logs for compliance reporting |

## Global Options

```bash
tollgate --version    # Show version
tollgate --help       # Show help
```

## Quick Examples

```bash
# Zero-config protection (prompts for all tool calls)
tollgate wrap npx @modelcontextprotocol/server-postgres

# Use a configuration file
tollgate start -s postgres -c ./tollgate.yaml

# View recent tool calls
tollgate logs -n 50

# Export logs for compliance
tollgate export -f json -o audit.json
```

## Two Modes of Operation

### Wrap Mode (Zero Config)

Instantly protect any MCP server without configuration:

```bash
tollgate wrap npx @anthropic/mcp-server-filesystem ./src
```

### Config Mode (Full Control)

Use a YAML configuration file for fine-grained policies:

```bash
# Create config
tollgate init

# Start with config
tollgate start -s filesystem
```
