shield/concepts/security-policies.mdx, before:

---
title: Security Policies
description: 'How Shield detects and protects your secrets'
---

# Security Policies

Shield uses a rule-based engine to identify secrets in your application logs and build output. These rules are called **Security Policies**.

## Default Protection (Offline)

When using the Shield CLI without a cloud-linked project, it comes pre-configured with a baseline of high-accuracy detection patterns. This ensures every user gets immediate protection without any configuration.

### Supported Default Patterns

| Name | Description | Severity |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **AWS Access Key** | Standard AWS Access Key IDs (AKIA...) | `critical` |
| **GitHub Tokens** | Classic, OAuth, and Fine-grained Personal Access Tokens | `critical` |
| **Stripe Keys** | Live and Test Secret Keys | `critical` / `high` |
| **Google API Key** | Google Cloud Platform API keys | `critical` |
| **Private Keys** | RSA, EC, and SSH private key blocks | `critical` |
| **Azure Connection String** | Azure Storage account keys | `critical` |
| **OpenAI API Key** | OpenAI API keys (sk-...) | `critical` |
| **NPM Token** | NPM access tokens | `critical` |
| **GitLab Personal Token** | GitLab Personal Access Tokens (glpat-...) | `critical` |
| **PyPI API Token** | Python Package Index API tokens | `critical` |
| **JWT Tokens** | JSON Web Tokens (base64 encoded) | `high` |
| **Slack Webhooks** | Incoming Webhook URLs | `high` |
| **Twilio Auth Token** | Twilio authentication tokens | `high` |
| **SendGrid Keys** | SendGrid API credentials | `medium` |
| **Generic Detectors** | Broad patterns for `api_key`, `secret`, and `password` | `medium` |

<Note>
Default patterns are hardcoded in the CLI and cannot be modified or disabled while offline.
</Note>

## Cloud-Managed Policies (Linked)

Once you [link your project](/shield/cli/link) to the Dotset Dashboard, your security architecture upgrades to a **Cloud-Managed** model.

### Centralized Source of Truth
When a project is linked, the CLI **discards its local hardcoded defaults** and fetches your project's specific policies from the Cloud. This gives you absolute control over the redaction engine.

### Advanced Features
Linking your project unlocks the full power of the Shield engine:

- **Custom Regex Patterns**: Create your own detection rules for proprietary token formats or internal secrets.
- **Enable/Disable Rules**: Easily toggle specific default rules if they cause false positives in your particular environment.
- **Adjust Severity**: Change the severity level (Critical, High, Medium, Low) for any pattern to match your team's risk profile.
- **Blocked Strings**: Add specific sensitive strings (like internal project IDs or employee names) that should always be redacted.
- **Allowlisting**: Define patterns or specific values that should be ignored by the redactor, preventing redundant alerts for public information.

### Priority and Overrides
If a value matches multiple policies, Shield intelligently merges the redaction ranges and reports the pattern with the highest severity. 

By managing policies in the Cloud, you ensure that every developer and CI runner in your organization is using the exact same security rules, synced in real-time.

Commit message:

docs: update for free open-source positioning
- Update mint.json GitHub links to dotsetlabs/cli
- Update trust.mdx source code links
- Remove cloud/telemetry references

shield/concepts/security-policies.mdx, after:

---
title: Security Policies
description: 'How Shield detects and protects your secrets'
---

# Security Policies

Shield uses a rule-based engine to identify secrets in your application logs and build output. These rules are called **Security Policies**.

## Built-in Protection

Shield comes pre-configured with a curated set of high-accuracy detection patterns for common secret types:

### Supported Patterns

| Name | Description | Severity |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **AWS Access Key** | Standard AWS Access Key IDs (AKIA...) | `critical` |
| **GitHub Tokens** | Classic, OAuth, and Fine-grained Personal Access Tokens | `critical` |
| **Stripe Keys** | Live and Test Secret Keys | `critical` / `high` |
| **Google API Key** | Google Cloud Platform API keys | `critical` |
| **Private Keys** | RSA, EC, and SSH private key blocks | `critical` |
| **Azure Connection String** | Azure Storage account keys | `critical` |
| **OpenAI API Key** | OpenAI API keys (sk-...) | `critical` |
| **NPM Token** | NPM access tokens | `critical` |
| **GitLab Personal Token** | GitLab Personal Access Tokens (glpat-...) | `critical` |
| **PyPI API Token** | Python Package Index API tokens | `critical` |
| **JWT Tokens** | JSON Web Tokens (base64 encoded) | `high` |
| **Slack Webhooks** | Incoming Webhook URLs | `high` |
| **Twilio Auth Token** | Twilio authentication tokens | `high` |
| **SendGrid Keys** | SendGrid API credentials | `medium` |
| **Generic Detectors** | Broad patterns for `api_key`, `secret`, and `password` | `medium` |

## Dynamic Detection

In addition to pattern-based detection, Shield also performs:

- **Exact value matching**: Any secret loaded from your providers is matched exactly
- **High-entropy detection**: Identifies strings that look like secrets based on character distribution
- **Assignment pattern detection**: Catches patterns like `password=` or `api_key:` in output

## Priority and Merging

If a value matches multiple patterns, Shield:
1. Merges overlapping redaction ranges
2. Reports the pattern with the highest severity

This ensures comprehensive protection without redundant alerts.
